CEXT-4453 Added use case for the new tax calculation module (#344)
AdobeDocs/commerce-extensibility: src/pages/starter-kit/checkout/use-cases.md

The following example demonstrates how to add a webhook to the `plugin.magento.out_of_process_tax_management.api.oop_tax_collection.collect_taxes` method:

```xml
<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:module:Magento_AdobeCommerceWebhooks:etc/webhooks.xsd">
    <method name="plugin.magento.out_of_process_tax_management.api.oop_tax_collection.collect_taxes" type="before">
        <hooks>
            <batch name="collect_taxes">
                <hook name="my_hook"
                      url="AppBuilder Action URL"
                method="POST" timeout="10000"
                softTimeout="2000" priority="300" required="true"
                fallbackErrorMessage="Error on validation"
                ttl="0"
                >
                    <headers>
                        <header name="x-gw-ims-org-id">{env:APP_BUILDER_IMS_ORG_ID}</header>
                        <header name="Authorization">Bearer {env:APP_BUILDER_AUTH_TOKEN}</header>
                    </headers>

>                 </hook>

Author: Sounds good.

            </batch>
        </hooks>
    </method>
</config>
```

> Once the webhook is registered, every time a shopping cart is requested, a synchronous call is dispatched to the App Builder application implementing the tax calculation and providing the response through an `oopQuote` object containing the tax fields.

Reviewer: The phrase `every time a shopping cart is requested` can be misleading for two reasons:
1. The webhook is triggered only when a shipping address destination is set. While the Quote may appear to be triggered frequently, as you saw in the module development, this is not the same as the webhook being called.
2. It's more accurate to say "the Quote is calculated" rather than "the shopping cart is requested." The shopping cart is just one scenario where Magento recalculates the Quote, but not all cart requests result in a webhook call.

```suggestion
When the quote is recalculated, such as during a cart update or at checkout, a synchronous call is dispatched to the App Builder application that handles tax calculation. The response is returned through the oopQuote object, which includes the calculated tax fields. This webhook is only triggered when a shipping destination address is set, to avoid unnecessary calls during early cart interactions.
```

Author: Nice information. Thanks for the clarification above.

## Tax calculation: Payload

The Appbuilder application receives the following payload as an `oopQuote` object that contains the necessary data for the tax calculation. Once the calculation is processed, the response will populate the `tax` and `tax_breakdown` fields under the `items` array and provide the response to the commerce instance.

```json
{
    "oopQuote": {
        "customer_tax_class": "string",
        "items": [
            {
                "code": "sequence-1",
                "type": "product",
                "tax_class": "tax-1",
                "unit_price": "60",
                "quantity": "2",
                "is_tax_included": false,
                "discount_amount": 0,
                "custom_attributes": [],
                "sku": "SKU-1",
                "name": "Product Name 01",
                "tax": null,
                "tax_breakdown": []
            },

>                                 {
>                 "code": "sequence-1",
>                 "type": "shipping",
>                 "tax_class": "tax-1",
>                 "unit_price": "10",
>                 "quantity": "1",
>                 "is_tax_included": false,
>                 "discount_amount": 0,
>                 "custom_attributes": [],
>                 "sku": "SKU-1",
>                 "name": "Product Name 01",
>                 "tax": null,
>                 "tax_breakdown": []
>             }

Reviewer: 1. Let's prettify the JSON format.
2. Could you please adjust the example to be a bit closer to a real-world use case? It looks like it may have been copied from the first item. It doesn’t need to be fully realistic or overly specific, but it would be better if it considered actual data types and common Magento logic:
    - AFAIK, the code field shouldn't be reused — for example, sequence-1 used more than once would be invalid. I already found `shipping` for the shipping item code.
    - Shipping items don’t have SKUs or names.
    - This is very picky, but tax classes are usually set differently for products and shipping.
    - The example uses strings for quantity and unit price, but those should be numeric values — this applies to the first product item as well.

```suggestion
            {
                "code": "shipping",
                "type": "shipping",
                "tax_class": "Shipping Tax",
                "unit_price": 60,
                "quantity": 1,
                "is_tax_included": false,
                "discount_amount": 0,
                "custom_attributes": [],
                "sku": null,
                "name": null,
                "tax": null,
                "tax_breakdown": []
            }
```

        ],
        "ship_from_address": {

>             "street": "Sesam Street",

Reviewer: Doesn't street of address have a list-of-strings type? Could you please verify this against a real webhook request?

Author: You're right. As per definition it should be list-of-strings. Will correct that.

            "city": "City1",
            "region": "Alhabama",
            "region_code": "AL",
            "country": "US",
            "postcode": "12345"
        },
        "ship_to_address": {
            "street": "Sesam Street",
            "city": "City1",
            "region": "California",
            "region_code": "CA",
            "country": "US",
            "postcode": "12345"
        },
        "billing_address": {
            "street": "Sesam Street",
            "city": "City1",
            "region": "California",
            "region_code": "CA",
            "country": "US",
            "postcode": "12345"
        },
        "shipping": {
            "shipping_method": "FREE",
            "shipping_description": "FREE"
        },
        "custom_attributes": []
    }
}
```

> ## Tax calculation: App Builder response

Reviewer: @jhadobe If we follow the same format as [Shipping method](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/extensibility/starter-kit/checkout/use-cases/#shipping-methods-payload) (I guess you intended this), I believe it should look more like this rather than using  `Tax calculation` in its heading:
```
## Tax management
## Tax management: Payload 
- Webhook request
- Webhook response
```

My concern with the current structure is that each section uses a different naming convention, even though all the "tax calculation" and "tax management" sections are referring to the same webhook and example. In my opinion, they should be grouped somehow under a single heading for clarity and consistency.

```
## Tax management  ==> talking about the collect tax webhook
## Tax calculation: GraphQL  ==> extending the collect tax webhook
## Tax calculation: Response ==> extending the collect tax webhook
## Tax management: Update custom attributes on tax classes via Admin UI
```

Not part of this PR scope, but my suggestion would be that shipping methods can be also grouped like this:
```
## Shipping methods: Get shipping rates
### Payload
### GraphQL
## Shipping methods: Remove shipping method

<!-- my suggestion for taxes above -->
## Tax management: Collect taxes
### Payload
## Tax management: Update custom attributes on tax classes via Admin UI
```

> ## Tax calculation: App Builder response

Reviewer 2: Thanks @kuflower, I agree that the structure of the use cases page could use some improvements. I've added some in #350 and would appreciate your thoughts. I've added additional levels of organization to those that you proposed, including h2's for shipping and payments and h3's for methods.

> The following sample App Builder response populates the `tax` and `tax_breakdown` attributes.

Reviewer: I encourage expanding the webhook response section to include more details about what is expected in the response when working on App Builder implementation for the commerce webhook.
For example, something like [this](https://wiki.corp.adobe.com/display/ACCSS/Tax+Calculation+during+Checkout#TaxCalculationduringCheckout-Samplewebhookresponse):

> Responses to commerce webhooks are expected to modify the original request body in various ways (see [Webhook responses](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/extensibility/webhooks/responses/)). The following uses the `replace` operation to set the `tax` field and the `add` operation to add different taxes to the `tax_breakdown` array.

In addition, please consider clarifying that the amount field is used for the actual tax calculation as shared before: https://magento.slack.com/archives/C02NVJGJJK1/p1744023364636299

Here is some key information that can be added for the attributes:
- The `amount` in the `tax` object represents the actual tax applied to each line item.
- The `rate` in both the `tax` and `tax_breakdown` objects is included for reference to indicate which tax rate was applied.
- The `discount_compensation_amount` corresponds to the [hidden tax], which accounts for the portion of tax adjusted by discounts.

Author: Done

```json
[
    {
        "op": "add",
        "path": "oopQuote/items/0/tax_breakdown",
        "value": {
            "data": {
                "code": "state_tax",
                "rate": 4.5,
                "amount": 5.4,
                "title": "State Tax",
                "tax_rate_key": "state_tax-4.5"
            }
        },

>         "instance": "Magento\\OutOfProcessTaxManagement\\Api\\Data\\OopQuoteItemTaxBreakdownInterface"

Reviewer: I see the following attached in https://wiki.corp.adobe.com/display/ACCSS/Tax+Calculation+during+Checkout

> The examples below originally included instance fields for each operation with the fully qualified class name of the element to add or replace. Based on the example of the shipping methods webhook in the [checkout starter kit](https://github.com/adobe/commerce-checkout-starter-kit), that does not appear to be necessary. See the original example at the bottom of the page.

@rujohnso, could you please confirm whether we can remove it?

Reviewer 3: yes, you can remove it

Author: Done

Reviewer: Please update the code sample https://github.com/adobe/commerce-checkout-starter-kit/blob/main/actions/tax-calculation/index.js#L124 too

        "path": "oopQuote/items/1/tax_breakdown",
        "value": {
            "data": {
                "code": "state_tax",
                "rate": 4.5,
                "amount": 0.45,
                "title": "State Tax",
                "tax_rate_key": "state_tax-4.5"
            }
        },
        "instance": "Magento\\OutOfProcessTaxManagement\\Api\\Data\\OopQuoteItemTaxBreakdownInterface"
    },
    {
        "op": "add",
        "path": "oopQuote/items/1/tax_breakdown",
        "value": {
            "data": {
                "code": "county_tax",
                "rate": 3.6,
                "amount": 0.36,
                "title": "County Tax",
                "tax_rate_key": "county_tax-3.6"
            }
        },
        "instance": "Magento\\OutOfProcessTaxManagement\\Api\\Data\\OopQuoteItemTaxBreakdownInterface"
    },
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "path": "oopQuote/items/1/tax",
        "value": {
            "data": {
                "rate": 8.1,
                "amount": 0.81,
                "discount_compensation_amount": 0
            }
        },
        "instance": "Magento\\OutOfProcessTaxManagement\\Api\\Data\\OopQuoteItemTaxInterface"
    }

> ]

Reviewer: Missing ```

The following example demonstrates how to add a webhook to the `plugin.magento.out_of_process_tax_management.api.oop_tax_collection.collect_taxes` method:

```xml
<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:module:Magento_AdobeCommerceWebhooks:etc/webhooks.xsd">
    <method name="plugin.magento.out_of_process_tax_management.api.oop_tax_collection.collect_taxes" type="before">
        <hooks>
            <batch name="collect_taxes">
                <hook name="my_hook"
                      url="AppBuilder Action URL"
                method="POST" timeout="10000"
                softTimeout="2000" priority="300" required="true"
                fallbackErrorMessage="Error on validation"
                ttl="0"
                >
                    <headers>
                        <header name="x-gw-ims-org-id">{env:APP_BUILDER_IMS_ORG_ID}</header>
                        <header name="Authorization">Bearer {env:APP_BUILDER_AUTH_TOKEN}</header>
                    </headers>
                </hook>
            </batch>
        </hooks>
    </method>
</config>
```

> Once the webhook is registered, every time a shopping cart is requested, a synchronous call is dispatched to the App Builder application implementing the tax calculation and provide the response through an oopQuote object containing the tax fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the webhook is registered, every time a shopping cart is requested, a synchronous call is dispatched to the App Builder application implementing the tax calculation and providing the response through an `oopQuote` object containing the tax fields.
```

> Please refer to [`actions/tax-calculation.js`](https://github.com/adobe/commerce-checkout-starter-kit/blob/main/actions/tax-calculation/index.js) for an example of how to process the request and return the tax calculation to the commerce instance. This link can be served as a template to implement custom tax calculations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to [`actions/tax-calculation.js`](https://github.com/adobe/commerce-checkout-starter-kit/blob/main/actions/tax-calculation/index.js) for an example of how to process the request and return the tax calculation to the commerce instance. This file can serve as a template to implement custom tax calculations.
```

## Tax calculation: Payload

> The Appbuilder application receives the following payload as an oopQuote object that contains the necessary data for the tax calculation. Once the calculation is processed, the response will populate the "tax" and "tax_breakdown" fields under "items" and provide the response to the commerce instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Appbuilder application receives the following payload as an `oopQuote` object that contains the necessary data for the tax calculation. Once the calculation is processed, the response will populate the `tax` and `tax_breakdown` fields under the `items` array and provide the response to the commerce instance.
```

                "quantity": "1",
                "is_tax_included": false,
                "discount_amount": 0,
                "custom_attributes": [],
                "sku": "SKU-1",
                "name": "Product Name 01",
                "tax": null,
                "tax_breakdown": []
            }
        ],
        "ship_from_address": {
            "street": "Sesam Street",
            "city": "City1",
            "region": "Alhabama",
            "region_code": "AL",
            "country": "US",
            "postcode": "12345"
        },
        "ship_to_address": {
            "street": "Sesam Street",
            "city": "City1",
            "region": "California",
            "region_code": "CA",
            "country": "US",
            "postcode": "12345"
        },
        "billing_address": {
            "street": "Sesam Street",
            "city": "City1",
            "region": "California",
            "region_code": "CA",
            "country": "US",
            "postcode": "12345"
        },
        "shipping": {
            "shipping_method": "FREE",
            "shipping_description": "FREE"
        },
        "custom_attributes": []
    }
}
```

> ## Tax calculation: App Builder Response

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Tax calculation: App Builder response
```

> Sample App builder response that will populate the "tax" and "tax_breakdown" attributes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following sample App Builder response populates the `tax` and `tax_breakdown` attributes.
```

}
```

## Tax management: Collect taxes

> You can calculate and apply taxes on shopping carts during checkout by using the `collectTaxes` webhook. See [webhooks](../../webhooks/index.md). to understand and setup a webhook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can calculate and apply taxes on shopping carts during checkout by using the `collectTaxes` webhook. See [webhooks](../../webhooks/index.md) to understand and setup a webhook.
```

Refer to [`actions/tax-calculation.js`](https://github.com/adobe/commerce-checkout-starter-kit/blob/main/actions/tax-calculation/index.js) for an example of how to process the request and return the tax calculation to the commerce instance. This file can serve as a template to implement custom tax calculations.

### Payload

The Appbuilder application receives the following payload as an `oopQuote` object that contains the necessary data for the tax calculation. Once the calculation is processed, the response will populate the `tax` and `tax_breakdown` fields under the `items` array and provide the response to the commerce instance.

```json
{
    "oopQuote": {
        "customer_tax_class": "string",
        "items": [
            {
                "code": "sequence-1",
                "type": "product",
                "tax_class": "tax-1",

>                 "unit_price": "60",
>                 "quantity": "2",

Reviewer: They are numeric not string.
```suggestion
                "unit_price": 60,
                "quantity": 2,
```

                "discount_amount": 0,
                "custom_attributes": [],
                "sku": null,
                "name": null,
                "tax": null,
                "tax_breakdown": []
            }
        ],
        "ship_from_address": {
            "street": [],
            "city": "City1",
            "region": "Alhabama",
            "region_code": "AL",
            "country": "US",
            "postcode": "12345"
        },
        "ship_to_address": {
            "street": [
              "address 1",
              "address 2"
            ],
            "city": "City1",
            "region": "California",
            "region_code": "CA",
            "country": "US",
            "postcode": "12345"
        },
        "billing_address": {
            "street": [
              "address 1",
              "address 2"
            ],
            "city": "City1",
            "region": "California",
            "region_code": "CA",
            "country": "US",
            "postcode": "12345"
        },
        "shipping": {
            "shipping_method": "FREE",
            "shipping_description": "FREE"
        },
        "custom_attributes": []
    }
}
```

> Responses to commerce webhooks are expected to modify the original request body in various ways (see [`Webhook responses and logging`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/extensibility/webhooks/responses/)). The following response example uses the `replace` operation to set the tax field and the `add` operation to add different taxes to the `tax_breakdown` array.
> Moreover, it is essential to note that the actual tax calculation is based solely on the `amount` field. The `rate` field is included only for informational purposes and should always be non-zero to ensure clarity in reporting
> 
> The key points to understand when constructing the response are:
> 
> - The `amount` in the `tax` object represents the actual tax applied to each line item.
> - The `rate` in both the `tax` and `tax_breakdown` objects is included for reference to indicate which tax rate was applied.
> - The `discount_compensation_amount` corresponds to the [`hidden tax`](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-admin/stores-sales/site-store/taxes/hidden-tax-calculation), which accounts for the portion of tax adjusted by discounts.

Reviewer: IMO, they look a bit long and could be shortened like this. The reason is that we have added the fallback logic for the tax rate, so there's no need to explicitly mention a non-zero rate and depend on the common sense.

```suggestion
Responses to commerce webhooks are expected to modify the original request body in various ways (see [`Webhook responses and logging`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/extensibility/webhooks/responses/)). The following response example uses the `replace` operation to set the tax field and the `add` operation to add different taxes to the `tax_breakdown` array.

The key points for constructing the response are:

- The `amount` in the `tax` object represents the actual tax applied to each line item.
- The `rate` in both the `tax` and `tax_breakdown` objects is included for reference to indicate which tax rate was applied.
- The `discount_compensation_amount` corresponds to the [`hidden tax`](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-admin/stores-sales/site-store/taxes/hidden-tax-calculation), which accounts for the portion of tax adjusted by discounts.
```

```json
[
    {
        "op": "add",
        "path": "oopQuote/items/0/tax_breakdown",
        "value": {
            "data": {
                "code": "state_tax",
                "rate": 4.5,
                "amount": 5.4,
                "title": "State Tax",
                "tax_rate_key": "state_tax-4.5"
            }
        }
    },
    {
        "op": "add",

>         "path": "oopQuote/items/0/tax_breakdown",
>         "value": {
>             "data": {
>                 "code": "county_tax",
>                 "rate": 3.6,
>                 "amount": 4.32,
>                 "title": "County Tax",
>                 "tax_rate_key": "county_tax-3.6"
>             }
>         }
>     },
>     {
>         "op": "replace",
>         "path": "oopQuote/items/0/tax",
>         "value": {
>             "data": {
>                 "rate": 8.1,
>                 "amount": 9.72,
>                 "discount_compensation_amount": 0
>             }
>         }
>     },
>     {
>         "op": "add",
>         "path": "oopQuote/items/1/tax_breakdown",
>         "value": {
>             "data": {
>                 "code": "state_tax",
>                 "rate": 4.5,
>                 "amount": 0.45,
>                 "title": "State Tax",
>                 "tax_rate_key": "state_tax-4.5"
>             }
>         }
>     },
>     {
>         "op": "add",
>         "path": "oopQuote/items/1/tax_breakdown",
>         "value": {
>             "data": {
>                 "code": "county_tax",
>                 "rate": 3.6,
>                 "amount": 0.36,
>                 "title": "County Tax",
>                 "tax_rate_key": "county_tax-3.6"
>             }
>         }
>     },
>     {
>         "op": "replace",
>         "path": "oopQuote/items/1/tax",
>         "value": {
>             "data": {
>                 "rate": 8.1,
>                 "amount": 0.81,
>                 "discount_compensation_amount": 0
>             }
>         }
>     }
> ]

Reviewer: Actually, this example seems too long. The App Builder sample applies two line items (one product and shipping) with two applied taxes. I’d remove the last one to cut the sample size in half.
```suggestion
```json
[
    {
        "op": "add",
        "path": "oopQuote/items/0/tax_breakdown",
        "value": {
            "data": {
                "code": "state_tax",
                "rate": 4.5,
                "amount": 5.4,
                "title": "State Tax",
                "tax_rate_key": "state_tax-4.5"
            }
        }
    },
    {
        "op": "add",
        "path": "oopQuote/items/0/tax_breakdown",
        "value": {
            "data": {
                "code": "county_tax",
                "rate": 3.6,
                "amount": 4.32,
                "title": "County Tax",
                "tax_rate_key": "county_tax-3.6"
            }
        }
    },
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "path": "oopQuote/items/0/tax",
        "value": {
            "data": {
                "rate": 8.1,
                "amount": 9.72,
                "discount_compensation_amount": 0
            }
        }
    }
]
```
